MM-28649 Add Mobile E2E documentation (#682)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/mobile/e2e/guide-for-writing.md

---
title: "Guide for Writing E2E"
date: 2020-09-01T09:00:00-00:00
weight: 5
subsection: Mobile End-to-End Testing
---

Before writing a script, ensure that it has a corresponding test case in Test Management for Jira (TM4J).

1. Create a test file based on [folder and file structure](/contribute/mobile/e2e/file-structure).

> 1. Include TM4J identification (ID) and title in the test description, following the format of `it('[tm4j_id] [title]')` or `it('[tm4j_id]_[step] [title]')` if test case has multiple steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Include TM4J identification (ID) and title in the test description, following the format of `it('[tm4j_id] [title]')` or `it('[tm4j_id]_[step] [title]')` if the test case has multiple steps.
```

    ```javascript
    describe('Messaging', () => {
        it('MM-T109 User can\'t send the same message repeatedly', () => {
            // Test steps and assertion here
        }
    }
    ```

> 2. Target an element using available [matchers](https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Matchers.md#matchers) but for best results, it is recommended to match elements by unique identifiers using `testID`. Identifier should follow the following format to avoid duplication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Target an element using available [matchers](https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Matchers.md#matchers). For best results, it is recommended to match elements by unique identifiers using `testID`. The identifier should follow the following format to avoid duplication:
```

    ```javascript

>     <component>.<child>.<action or identifier>

Reviewer 2: please explain what is the meaning of each: `component`, `child` and `action or identifier`

Reviewer 3: Done. End up with format `<location>.<modifier>.<element>.<identifier>`. Please take a look again, thanks.

Reviewer 3: Btw, I'll update the `testID` at mobile repo to follow this format once this is merged.

    ```
3. Simulate user interaction using available [actions](https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.ActionsOnElement.md).
4. Verify user interface (UI) expectation using [expect](https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Expect.md).

> 5. In case of using action, match or other API specific to particular platform, verify that equivalent logic is applied or such API does not have side-effect to the other platform. Always run tests in both platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. When using `action`, `match`, or another API specific to particular platform, verify that the equivalent logic is applied so that the API does not impact the other platform. Always run tests in both platforms.
```
